Codeception documentation (#242)
humanmade/altis-dev-tools: docs/testing-with-codeception.md

    - [Unit tests](#unit-tests)
    - [WordPress unit tests](#wordpress-unit-tests)
  - [Dependency Injection](#dependency-injection)
  - [Annotations](#annotations)
  - [Available Modules](#available-modules)
  - [Altis Helpers](#altis-helpers)
- [Scaffolding](#scaffolding)
- [Advanced usage](#advanced-usage)
  - [Debugging](#debugging)
  - [Extensions](#extensions)
  - [Custom config](#custom-config)

## Getting started

Altis provides a zero-configuration approach for setting up and running Codeception tests, so you can start writing and running tests right-away!

If you're already familiar with Codeception and wp-browser, you can start [boostrapping and scaffolding tests](#scaffolding), and [run them](#running-tests) via the zero-config command, they'll just work!

```sh
# Bootstrap the tests directory and create all default suites
composer dev-tools codecept bootstrap

# Generate an acceptance test class
composer dev-tools codecept generate:cest acceptance awesome-feature/admin/AwesomeFeatureAdminTest

# Run tests!
composer dev-tools codecept run
```

For some extra control, check out the available [advanced usage](#advanced-usage) for some fine-tuning.

> Also check out tests of Altis modules for some prior art and copy/paste opportunities.

Author: Yeah, that doesn't make much sense here, and considering we might add some actual tutorials / sample tests that we can link to, we can probably remove this statement then.

## Running Tests

**Note:** Codeception setup is currently only available while using the local-server module, with no support for local-chassis module.

In order to run Codeception tests, you can run the following shorthand command:

```sh
composer dev-tools codecept run
```

> This assumes you have tests in the root `tests` directory, or you've configured directories in your `composer.json` as explained above. Check the [Advanced usage](#advanced-usage) section below for command parameters and options.

Author: Yeah, I actually removed the composer configuration section for that reason, will remove the reference here.

### Advanced usage

There are multiple optional parameters to customize the running command, eg:

```sh
composer dev-tools codecept [-p PATH/TO/TESTS] [-b BROWSER] run [TEST-SUITE] [[TestClass]:testMethod]
```

- `-p/--path` defines the directory where tests exists. Omit to use the `tests` root directory, or the defined test directory/directories in your configuration file.

> - `-b/--browser` defines which browser to use for acceptance tests. Omit to use the default (or configured) browser. Options are `chrome` (default), `firefox`, and `edge` (although not quite functional yet).

Author: Cool, makes sense.

- `TEST-SUITE` references the name of the test suite to run, typically one of the `*.suite.yml` files in the tests directory. Omit to run all found test suites.
- `TestClass` references one of the test classes in the specified suite. Omit to run all tests within the suite(s).
- `testMethod` references a single test method within the specified test class. Omit to run all test method within specified test class(es)/suite(s).

Altis `codecept` command proxies commands to the `codeception` cli, except for the `-b` and `-p` cli params, so you'll be able to execute advanced commands and utilize more of what Codeception has to offer as needed, eg: generate a suite or a test:

```sh
composer dev-tools codecept generate g:cest TEST-SUITE TestClassName
```

> To pass arbitary options to `codeception` command, eg: `-vv` to enable verbose mode, use a double hyphen `--` to split those as follows:

Author: Googled that a bit, I guess there is a clear distinction between the three:
- An argument is what a command is split into, eg: `ls -la some-dir` these are three arguments, with `ls` being arg 0.
- An option argument is an optional argument, eg: `-v` or `--verbose`
- An option argument can be passed a parameter, eg: the `baz` in `foo -b baz`

Just went through the whole document and updated references as needed.

```sh
composer dev-tools codecept -- -vv
```

When you invoke the `codecept` command, this happens in the background:
- Altis looks within the tests directory/directories for test suites files, and runs through each suite one by one in separate threads.

> - For suites using the WebDriver module, Altis boots up a docker container with a headless browser to execute those tests, based on Selenium standalone web driver containers.

Author: Sure, i'll work on that first before merging the PR.

- For suites using the WPDb module, Altis sets up test databases, and seeds them with a bundled sample dump file, which can be overridden in `composer.json` if need be.
- Tests output, eg: failed tests screenshots/html snapshots, and debugging artifacts, are saved to `PROJECT/ROOT/tests/_output` for convenience.
- After tests have run, Altis removes the test databases, clears test caches, and the browser container.

### Continuous Integration

> In order to run Codeception tests in Continous Integration environments, follow [Altis documentation on setting up Continous Integration on Travis](https://docs.altis-dxp.com/dev-tools/continuous-integration/), and specify your test running command(s) as per the documentation above, typically replacing `composer dev-tools phpunit` command referenced in CI setup docs with `composer dev-tools codecept`.

Author: I used:
```
In order to run Codeception tests in Continous Integration environments, follow the [documentation on setting up Continous Integration on Travis](https://docs.altis-dxp.com/dev-tools/continuous-integration/), and specify your test running command(s) as per the documentation above, typically using `composer dev-tools codecept run` instead of / in addition to `composer dev-tools phpunit` as explained in the docs.
```

Specifically stating that both can co-exist.

        ] );
        $I->amOnPage( '/signup' );
    }

    public function test_good_signup( FunctionalTester $I ) {
        // Submit the form as a user would submit it.
        $I->submitForm( '#signup-form', [
            'name' => 'John Doe',
            'email' => 'john.doe@altis.com',
        ] );

        // Make sure I see a confirmation message.
        $I->waitForElement( '#signup-confirmation' );
    }

    public function test_bad_email_signup( FunctionalTester $I ) {
        // Submit the form as a user would submit it.
        $I->submitForm( '#signup-form', [
            'name' => 'John Doe',
            'email' => 'not-really-an-email',
        ] );

        // Make sure I see an error message.
        $I->waitForElement( '#signup-error' );
    }
}
```

#### Functional tests

In short: *Testing a scenario from a developer perspective*, eg: sending AJAX/API requests and checking responses and/or database changes.

This type doesn't necessarily use a browser, as it can use a PHP library that acts like a browser, with no Javascript support. And it looks pretty much like Acceptance tests, but with different testing mindset/domain.

> Functional and acceptance tests can theoretically/technically co-exist, eg: executing browser actions and checking expected database changes rather than just browser outout. But it adds the overhead of executing tests via a browser which can be slower than the quicker PHP browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Functional and acceptance tests can co-exist, eg: executing browser actions and checking expected database changes rather than just browser output. But it adds the overhead of executing tests via a browser which can be slower than the quicker PHP browser.
```

Hmm, I'm not sure this paragraph really explains the difference, I find it a bit confusing. Maybe we could simplify it down to listing the key differences:

- No JavaScript support
- Much faster to run
- Ideal for testing static output such as API responses

Author: Yeah, the last sentence doesn't seem to fit, since acceptance tests can still be carried out by WPBrowser, not necessarily WPWebDriver. Will remove it entirely. The meaning is conveyed somewhere else already, no need to reiterate.

            'post_content'=> 'Sign-up for our awesome thing! [signup]',
        ] );
        $I->amOnPage( '/signup' );
    }

    public function test_good_signup( FunctionalTester $I ) {
        $I->sendAjaxPostRequest( '/wp-json/acme/v1/signup', [
            '_wpnonce' => $I->grabAttributeFrom( '#signup-nonce', 'value' ),
            'name' => 'John Doe',
            'email' => 'john.doe@altis.com',
        ] );
        $I->seeResponseCodeIsSuccessful();
        $I->seeUserInDatabase( [ 'user_login' => 'john.doe', 'user_email' => 'john.doe@altis.com' ] );
    }

    public function test_bad_email_signup( FunctionalTester $I ) {
        $I->sendAjaxPostRequest( '/wp-json/acme/v1/signup', [
            '_wpnonce' => $I->grabAttributeFrom( '#signup-nonce', 'value' ),
            'name' => 'John Doe',
            'email' => 'not-really-an-email',
        ] );
        $I->seeResponseCodeIs( 400 );
        $I->dontSeeUserInDatabase( [ 'user_login' => 'john.doe', 'user_email' => 'not-really-an-email' ] );
    }
}
```

#### Integration tests

In short: *Testing code within the context of a WordPress site*, eg: testing filters and actions are behaving as expected.

> This type is written in the PHPUnit format, however extending the `\Codeception\TestCase\WPTestCase` provided by `wp-browser`, eg:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This type is written in the PHPUnit format, however extending the `\Codeception\TestCase\WPTestCase` class provided by `wp-browser`, eg:
```

        $response = $handler->handle( $request );
        $this->assertIntsanceOf( WP_REST_Response::class, $response );
        $this->assertEquals( 200, $response->get_status() );
        $this->assertInstanceOf( Acme\Signup\Submission_Good::class, $handler->last_submission() );
        $this->assertEquals( 'john.doe', $handler->last_submission()->name() );
        $this->assertEquals( 'john.doe@altis.com', $handler->last_submission()->email() );
    }

    public function test_bad_email_request() {
        $request = new WP_Rest_Request();
        $request->set_body_params( [ 'name' => 'john.doe', 'email' => 'not-a-valid-email' ] );
        $handler = new  Acme\Signup\SubmissionHandler();
        $response = $handler->handle( $request );
        $this->assertIntsanceOf( WP_REST_Response::class, $response );
        $this->assertEquals( 400, $response->get_status() );
        $this->assertInstanceOf( Acme\Signup\Submission_Bad::class, $handler->last_submission() );
        $this->assertEquals( 'john.doe', $handler->last_submission()->name() );
        $this->assertEquals( 'not-a-valid-email', $handler->last_submission()->email() );
    }
}
```

#### WordPress unit tests

> In short: *Testing single classes or functions in as much isolation as possible*, eg: testing one class or one function that requires WordPress-defined function or class, with a unit testing approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In short: *Testing single classes or functions in as much isolation as possible*, eg: testing one class or one function that requires WordPress-defined functions or classes, with a unit testing approach.
```

> This type is written also in PHPUnit format, extending `\Codeception\Test\Test` class. eg:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This type is written also in PHPUnit format, extending the `\Codeception\Test\Test` class. eg:
```

```php
<?php
// SubmissionHandlerTest.php

class SubmissionHandlerTest extends Codeception\Test\Test {

>     protected  $request;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    protected $request;
```

    protected $validator;

    public function setUp() {
        // Mock the request.

>         $this->request = $this->prophesize( WP_REST_Request::class );

Reviewer: Is prophesize a built in thing then? TIL

        $this->validator->validate( 'john.doe@altis.com' )->shouldHaveBeenCalled();
    }
    public function test_will_not_validate_email_if_missing() {
        $this->request->get_param( 'name' )->willReturn( 'john.doe' );
        $this->request->get_param( 'email' )->willReturn( '' );

        $handler = new Acme\Signup\SubmissionHandler( $this->validator->reveal() );
        $handler->set_validator( $this->validator );
        $response = $handler->handle( $this->request->reveal() );
        $this->assertInstanceOf( WP_REST_Response::class, $response );

        // Verify on the validator spy.
        $this->validator->validate( Argument::any() )->shouldNotHaveBeenCalled();
    }
}
```

### Dependency Injection

Codeception has two different ways to inject Helper dependencies, or virtually any defined class:

#### a. Automated dependency injection

You can specify dependencies to inject to a test method by defining it as an argument like the following, and Codeception will take care of bootstrapping the helper and passing it as an argument:

```php
//...
function test_some_action( AcceptanceTester $I, \Helper\AdminBar $adminBar ) {}
//...
```

#### b. `_inject()`

> Codeception test / actor / helper classes has a special method where you can bootstrap helpers and virtual any PHP class, and attach it to the test class object, which has the added benefit of being able to construct objects with arbitrary arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Codeception test / actor / helper classes have a special method that lets you bootstrap helpers and virtually any PHP class that can be autoloaded. You can then attach these helpers to the test class object, which has the added benefit of being able to construct objects with arbitrary arguments:
```

```php
class SampleTest {

    /**
     * @var \Helper\AdminBar
     */
    protected $adminBar;

    protected function _inject( \Helper\AdminBar $adminBar ) {
        $this->adminBar = $adminBar->init( 'single-page' );
    }

    public function test_clicking_new_post( AcceptanceTester $I ) {
        $this->adminBar->clickNew( 'post' );
    }
}
```

> [Read more on Codeception docs](https://codeception.com/docs/07-AdvancedUsage.html#Dependency-Injection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Read more about dependency injection on the Codeception docs](https://codeception.com/docs/07-AdvancedUsage.html#Dependency-Injection).
```

### Annotations

> Codeception has different special annotations that helps write tests in a more effiecent way, some of which are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Codeception has different special annotations that help you to write tests in a more efficient way.
```

#### Examples

> Codeception provides a similar functionality to PHPUnit's [`@dataProvider`](https://phpunit.readthedocs.io/en/9.5/writing-tests-for-phpunit.html?highlight=dataprovider#data-providers) annotations, to specify different scenarios / data sets for the same test to run once per each, eg:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Codeception provides a similar functionality to PHPUnit's [`@dataProvider`](https://phpunit.readthedocs.io/en/9.5/writing-tests-for-phpunit.html?highlight=dataprovider#data-providers) annotations, to specify different scenarios or data sets for the same test to run once per each set of values, eg:
```

```php
/**
  * @example ["/api/", 200]
  * @example ["/api/protected", 401]
  * @example ["/api/not-found-url", 404]
  * @example ["/api/faulty", 500]
  */
public function test_api_responses( ApiTester $I, \Codeception\Example $example ) {
    $I->sendGet( $example[0] );
    $I->seeResponseCodeIs( $example[1] );
}
```

You can define examples in Doctrine or JSON style, eg: `@example ["/api/", 200]` or `@example { "url": "/api/", "code": 200 }` or `@example(url="/api/", code=200)`.

#### DataProviders

> You can also use  PHPUnit's `@dataProvider` pattern to create _dynamic data sets_ for test methods, where the test will run once per each data set returned from the protected data provider method, but the syntax differs a bit given the way test methods are written, eg:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use  PHPUnit's `@dataProvider` pattern to create _dynamic data sets_ for test methods, where the test will run once per each data set returned from the protected data provider method. The syntax differs a bit given the way test methods are written, eg:
```

```php
/**
* @dataProvider pageProvider
*/
public function testStaticPages( AcceptanceTester $I, \Codeception\Example $example ) {
    $I->amOnPage( $example['url'] );
    $I->see( $example['title'], 'h1' );
    $I->seeInTitle( $example['title'] );
}

/**
 * @return array
 */
protected function pageProvider() {
    return [
        [ 'url' => "/", 'title' => "Welcome" ],
        [ 'url' => "/info", 'title' => "Info" ],
        [ 'url' => "/about", 'title' => "About Us" ],
        [ 'url' => "/contact", 'title' => "Contact Us" ]
    ];
}
```

> [Read more on Codeception docs](https://codeception.com/docs/07-AdvancedUsage.html#Example-Annotation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Read more about examples and data providers on the Codeception docs](https://codeception.com/docs/07-AdvancedUsage.html#Example-Annotation).
```

#### Before and After

Codeception tests have special annotation types to execute methods before a certain test method, where you can define one or more prerequisites/cleanup functions, eg:

```php
protected function activate( AcceptanceTester $I ) {
    $this->loginAsAdmin();
    $this->activatePlugin( 'some-plugin' );
}

protected function cleanup( AcceptanceTester $I ) {
    $I->deactivatePlugin( 'some-plugin' );
    $I->logout();
}

/**
 * @before activate
 * @before anotherPrerequisite
 * @after cleanup
 */
public function checkPluginPageExists( AcceptanceTester $I ) {
    // ...
}
```

#### Environment

Codeception tests can be instructed to run in multiple / different environments, via the `@env` special annotation, eg:

```php
/**
 * @env chrome
 * @env firefox
 */
public function someTest() {}
```

### Available modules

> Altis' Codeception integration comes bundled with `wp-browser` library, which provides additional modules to simplify testing WordPress applications. Altis pre-configures such modules via the zero-config installation, so you don't need to manually configure them unless you need to override some of the default values, which you can do via test suite configuration, eg:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Altis' Codeception integration comes bundled with the [`wp-browser` library](https://github.com/lucatume/wp-browser), which provides additional modules to simplify testing WordPress applications. Altis pre-configures these modules via the zero-config installation, so you don't need to manually configure them unless you need to override some of the default values, which you can do via test suite configuration, eg:
```
Keep an eye on these long sentences and consider breaking them up a bit to make things clearer.

```yml
# acceptance.suite.yml

actor: AcceptanceTester
modules:
    enabled:
        - WPDb
        - WPBrowser
        - \Helper\Acceptance
    config:
        WPBrowser:
            headers:
                X_WPBROWSER_REQUEST: 1
```

> For a list of available modules, please check [`wp-browser` documentation on modules](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules), and the respective configuration options, and methods, of each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a list of available modules, please check the [`wp-browser` documentation on modules](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules), and the respective configuration options, and methods, of each.
```

#### WPBrowser

This module extends the `PHPBrowser` module, adding WordPress-specific configuration parameters and methods. It simulates a user interaction with the site without Javascript support; if you need to test your project with Javascript support use the `WPWebDriver` module instead.

[Read more on WPBrowser module configuration](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules/wpbrowser#configuration).

#### WPWebDriver

This module extends the `WebDriver` module adding WordPress-specific configuration parameters and methods. It simulates a user interaction with the site with Javascript support; if you don't need to test your project with Javascript support use the WPBrowser module to skip the overhead of loading a headless browser.

Altis comes with built-in browser support for Chrome, and Firefox, based on Selenium standalone Docker images, which is pre-configured to run with and be available for acceptance tests with zero-configuration required.

**Important notes:**

- During acceptance tests, two processes (or more) are working in parallel:
a. The test runner request, ie: Codeception process.
b. The browser session driven by `WPWebDriver`, ie: application process.

> Both of those use different configurations and different running context / environment. And it'll save you time to distinguish between the two running processes/threads.

Reviewer: Should the a. and bb. be indented here?

Author: Yeah, but maybe a nested list is more consistent, will update.

Author: ```suggestion
- During acceptance tests, two processes (or more) are working in parallel:
  - The test runner request, ie: Codeception process.
  - The browser session driven by `WPWebDriver`, ie: application process.
Both of those use different configurations and different running context / environment. And it'll save you time to distinguish between the two running processes/threads.
```

[Read more on WPWebDriver module configuration](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules/wpwebdriver#configuration).

#### WPDb

This module extends the `Db` module adding WordPress-specific configuration parameters and methods. It provides methods to read, write and update the WordPress database directly, without relying on WordPress methods, using WordPress functions or triggering WordPress filters.

> Altis comes with pre-prepared database contents that's imported on the fly to simulate a basic working site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Altis comes with a pre-prepared database dump that is imported on the fly to simulate a basic working site.
```

- Altis detects acceptance test requests (to the actual running application) and switches the database to `test` in runtime, so it doesn't mess with existing site content.

[Read more on WPDb module configuration](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules/wpdb#configuration).

#### WPLoader

This module is typically used in integration tests, to bootstrap WordPress code in the context of the tests.
It can also be used in acceptance and functional tests, by setting the `loadOnly` parameter to `true`, in order to acccess WordPress code in the tests context (using the `tests` database imported by `WPDb` ).

This module is a wrapper around the functionalities provided by the [WordPress PHPUnit Core test suite](https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/testing/automated-testing/phpunit/), as such it provides the same methods and facilities.

The parameters provided to the module duplicate the ones used in the WordPress configuration file. `WPLoader` will not bootstrap WordPress using the `wp-config.php` file, it will define and use its own WordPress configuration values passed from the defined module parameters.

**Important notes:**

> - If `loadOnly` parameter is set to `false`, Codeception will execute all database modification requests, eg: created and/or deleted content, as a sql transaction, which gets rolled-back whenever the test scenario completes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the `loadOnly` parameter is set to `false`, Codeception will execute all database modification requests, eg: created and/or deleted content, as an SQL transaction, which gets rolled-back whenever the test scenario completes.
```

- WordPress defined functions and classes (and those of the plugins and themes loaded with it) will be available in the `setUpBeforeClass` method.
- WordPress would not have loaded yet when PHPUnit calls the data provider methods, so don't expect to be able to use any WordPress functions within data provider methods.

[Read more on WPLoader module configuration](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules/wploader#configuration).

#### WPQueries

> This module is typically used in integration tests, to make assertions on the database queries made by the global $wpdb object, and it **requires** `WPLoader` module to work. It will set, if not set already, the `SAVEQUERIES` constant to true and will throw an exception if the contstant is already set to a falsy value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module is typically used in integration tests, to make assertions on the database queries made by the global $wpdb object, and it **requires** the `WPLoader` module in order to work. It will set, if not set already, the `SAVEQUERIES` constant to true and will throw an exception if the constant is already set to a falsy value.
```

[Read more on WPQueries module configuration](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules/wpqueries#configuration).

#### WPFilesystem

This module is typically used in acceptance and functional tests, it extends the `Filesystem` module adding WordPress-specific configuration parameters and methods. It provides methods to read, write and update the WordPress filesystem directly, without relying on WordPress methods, using WordPress functions or triggering WordPress filters.

> One of the handy use cases of this module is scaffolding plugins and themes on the fly in the context of tests and auto-remove them after each test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the handy use cases of this module is scaffolding plugins and themes on the fly in the context of tests and automatically removing them after each test.
```

[Read more on WPFilesystem module configuration](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules/wpfilesystem#configuration).

#### WPCLI

This module is typically used in acceptance and functional tests to invoke WP-CLI commands, and test their output. It will use its own version of WP-CLI, not the one installed in the machine running the tests!

**Important notes:***

> - By default, wp-browser will only include the `wp-cli/wp-cli` package; this package contains the basic files to run WP-CLI and does not contain all the commands that come with a typical `wp-cli` installation. If you require all the commands that usually come installed with WP-CLI, then you should require the `wp-cli/wp-cli-bundle` package as a development dependency of your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, `wp-browser` will only include the `wp-cli/wp-cli` package; this package contains the basic files to run WP-CLI and does not contain all the commands that come with a typical `wp-cli` installation. If you require all the commands that usually come installed with WP-CLI, then you should require the `wp-cli/wp-cli-bundle` package as a development dependency of your project.
```

> - This module defines the environment variable `WPBROWSER_HOST_REQUEST` to distinguish testing session, Altis will detect that and switch to the test database similar to what happens with acceptance test sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This module defines the environment variable `WPBROWSER_HOST_REQUEST` to distinguish testing sessions. Altis will detect this and switch to the test database, similar to what happens in acceptance test sessions.
```

[Read more on WPCLI module configuration](https://wpbrowser.wptestkit.dev/modules/wpcli#configuration).

### Altis helpers

> Altis extends Codeception/wp-browser with its own helpers, mainly used to test Altis modules, but can be useful for projects as well, and are available for you to use. Check out the `tests/_helpers` directory within the `dev-tools` package to check out existing helpers and new available functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Altis extends Codeception/wp-browser with its own helpers. Check out the `tests/_helpers` directory within the `dev-tools` package to check out existing helpers and new available functionality.
```
No need to mention module testing to end users, we're doing this for them first and foremost right 😉

## Scaffolding

Altis has a command to generate / scaffold tests and related artifacts, through the Codeception `bootstrap` and `generate` subcommands.

### Bootstrapping tests

To bootstrap the tests folder, which will create the five default tests suites:

```sh

> composer dev-tools codecept bootstrap

Reviewer: Can we make this command use the suite.yml files in this repo as templates?

Author: That's the plan, yes.

#### Debug statements and screenshots

Codeception allows printing debugging information, saving HTML snapshots, or saving screenshots for debugging purposes, eg:

```php
/**
  * @example ["", "Welcome"]
  * @example ["about", "About us"]
  * @example ["login", "Sign in"]
  */
public function testAwesomePages( AcceptanceTester $I, \Codeception\Example $example ) {
    # Print a debug statement.
    codecept_debug( sprintf( 'Checking page: "%s"', $example[0] );

    # Go to the page, and check its title.
    $I->amOnPage( $example[0] );
    $I->seeInTitle( $example[1] );

    # Save a page snapshot.
    $I->makeHtmlSnapshot( 'awesome-snapshot-' . $example[0] );

    # Save a screenshot of the page.
    $I->makeScreenshot( 'awesome-screenshot-' . $example[0] );

    # Save a screenshot of a specific element on the page.
    $I->makeElementScreenshot( '#header', 'awesome-screenshot-' . $example[0] );
}
```

#### Interactive console

Codeception allows real-time execution of arbitrary acceptance test code via a live browser session, so you can try out commands before writing the actual test, eg:

```sh
composer dev-tools codecept console acceptance
```

> Even better, you can pause test executions programmatically and get a nice console where you can execute arbitrary commands, provided are in debug mode by supplying `--debug` flag to the `run` command ( note the need for the arguments separator `--` ), eg:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even better, you can pause test executions programmatically and get a nice console where you can execute arbitrary commands, provided that you are in debug mode by supplying the `--debug` flag to the `run` command ( note the need for the options delimiter `--` ), eg:
```

```sh
composer dev-tools codecept run acceptance -- --debug
```
then, within the test method:
```php
$I->pause();
```

> **Note:** using the interfactive console requires the `hoa/console` composer package, which is not installed by default. Install it via:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** using the interactive console requires the `hoa/console` composer package, which is not installed by default. Install it via:
```

```sh
composer require --dev hoa/console
```

### Extensions

Codeception provides a set of useful extensions that can be used with tests, find more information about the [built-in extensions here](https://codeception.com/extensions).

To give a quick glance:

> - **DorReporter**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DotReporter**
```

> Provides less verbose output for test execution. Like PHPUnit printer it prints dots "." for successful testes and "F" for failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provides less verbose output for test execution. Like PHPUnit printer it prints dots "." for successful tests and "F" for failures.
```
😂  definitely not testes!

- **Logger**

> Logs suites/tests/steps using Monolog library. Monolog should be installed additionally by Composer.

Reviewer: Monolog is already installed as part of Altis so this should be fine.
